AMNA NAWAZ: This week, a task force dedicated to
fighting antisemitism reportedly decided to sever
ties with the conservative Heritage Foundation.
It comes after the think tank's president,
Kevin Roberts, defended Tucker Carlson's
interview with a far right antisemitic activist.
This infighting has laid bare a growing
schism within conservative circles
over how to address antisemitism.
William Brangham reports.
TUCKER CARLSON, Conservative Commentator:
Nick Fuentes, thank you for doing this.
NICK FUENTES, Far Right Influencer:
Yes, thank you for having me.
TUCKER CARLSON: I have wanted to meet you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The interview, which lasted over
two hours, was posted late last month and has been
seen over 20 million times, the conservative
commentator Tucker Carlson interviewing Nick
Fuentes, the 27-year-old hard-right influencer
with millions of followers known as Groypers.
Fuentes is known for his open racism.
NICK FUENTES: White people have a
special heritage here as Americans.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: His misogyny,
like when he wrote, "Your body,
my choice," after the 2024 election.
NICK FUENTES: The whole political
system is just based around women
never being accountable for any of their choices.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And his overt antisemitism,
ranging from Holocaust denial to his
belief in a global Jewish conspiracy.
NICK FUENTES: The big challenge to
that is organized Jewry in America.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The interview
with Carlson drew quick,
sharp condemnation from many
in the conservative movement.
Ben Shapiro, editor of the conservative
Daily Wire, wrote: "No to the Groypers,
no to the cowards like Tucker
Carlson who normalized their trash."
KEVIN ROBERTS, President, Heritage
Foundation: Christians can critique
the state of Israel without being antisemitic.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But Kevin Roberts, head of The
Heritage Foundation, defended Carlson. Heritage
is the influential conservative think tank
behind Project 2025 and which has long supported
Israel and America's support for it. Roberts
argued attacking Carlson was a distraction.
KEVIN ROBERTS: The venomous coalition attacking
him are sowing division. Their attempt to
cancel him will fail. Most importantly, the
American people expect us to be focusing on
our political adversaries on the left,
not attacking our friends on the right.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Roberts faced a strong backlash,
including from staffers within Heritage, and calls
for his resignation. He later apologized
and denounced Nick Fuentes specifically.
But the controversy has revealed the ongoing
challenge of balancing different
factions within the MAGA base.
For the "PBS News Hour," I'm William Brangham.
AMNA NAWAZ: For more on this, we're joined by
Arno Rosenfeld. He's an enterprise reporter with
The Forward. That's a Jewish news outlet, where
he writes the Antisemitism Decoded newsletter.
Thanks for being here, Arno.
ARNO ROSENFELD, Enterprise Reporter,
The Forward: Thanks for having me.
AMNA NAWAZ: So, this interview, for
Tucker Carlson, who's a former FOX host
and mainstay of conservative media,
to invite a known Holocaust denier,
a white supremacist in Nick Fuentes onto
his show for an objectively friendly
interview, what does that moment
represent? Why would he do that?
ARNO ROSENFELD: So, I think a
few things are going on here,
because in addition to being all the things
that you described about Nick Fuentes,
he's also an incredibly influential pundit in
a certain corner of the conservative movement.
He has many -- hundreds of thousands of
people tune into his livestreams. He has
millions of followers online. And I think Carlson
recognized that Fuentes is growing in influence,
and Carlson wanted to harness that influence. In
this case, he was really trying to get Fuentes to
align with him on trying to get the MAGA
movement to withdraw support for Israel.
And, as part of that, he was trying to
convince Fuentes to back away from some
of his more inflammatory rhetoric around Jews,
because Carlson thought that was bad for the
larger goal that they shared of trying
to reduce American support for Israel.
So that's why Carlson had Fuentes on. It
wasn't just about giving him a platform,
but it was about trying to sort of win
him over or build an alliance. And I think
that's what worried a lot of people, because
Carlson has a lot more mainstream credibility
than Fuentes does. And so, if they're joining
forces, that's concerning to a lot of people.
AMNA NAWAZ: Is that shift, is that illustrative
of a larger split or divide within conservatives?
ARNO ROSENFELD: Absolutely. I mean, Trump has
historically supportedIsrael. But there is a real dividing line
there. And we're starting to see some
breakaways in Congress too, folks like
Marjorie Taylor Greene becoming more hostile
to American aid for Israel, but, on the right,
especially folks like Carlson, certainly people
like Fuentes, join that hostility toward support
for Israel with just overt antisemitism,
tropes, conspiracy theories about Jews.
AMNA NAWAZ: So then you have the statement
from the president of The Heritage Foundation,
right, stepping in to defend
Carlson. What do you make of that?
ARNO ROSENFELD: So I think it was sort of, in
some respects, an unforced error on the part
of The Heritage Foundation. Nobody was
actually asking them to weigh in here.
And so the fact that Roberts would
go out of his way to defend Carlson,
not just as a friend, but as a legitimate
voice in the conservative movement, and his
decision to interview Fuentes as a legitimate
political decision alarmed a lot of people,
because I think there are folks who recognize
that Fuentes might be growing in influence,
but he's on these dark corners of the Internet.
And you can't really police those very
well. Carlson was booted from FOX News.
He's also independent right now. But
Heritage is still a very influential
gatekeeper and policy voice within
the MAGA movement in Washington, D.C.
And so if it's not just Carlson as a more
mainstream voice than Fuentes bringing Fuentes
along, but then it's Heritage giving their stamp
of approval to Carlson, I think that's what scared
a lot of people. They started thinking, oh, my
gosh, where are the gatekeepers? Who's going to
stop this open antisemitism and animosity toward
Jews from entering the political mainstream?
AMNA NAWAZ: Yes. So what about that? What about the
keepers ofthat firewall, as it were? Because you have
seen people like Mitch McConnell and Ted Cruz
and Ben Shapiro come out against Nick Fuentes
unequivocally. But now you have him being hosted
on a show with Tucker Carlson. Is he existing
in the dark corners or is that force and that
voice more ascendant among conservative circles?
ARNO ROSENFELD: You know, I
think what Carlson realized,
and I think the reason that Carlson -- and he said
this in the conversation with Fuentes -- brought
Fuentes on is because those gatekeepers
have not been able to stop Fuentes' rise.
One thing that Fuentes talked about
in that interview was his longstanding
feud with Ben Shapiro, who he said for
years has been trying to keep him out
of the mainstream. And it hasn't
worked. So we did see -- I mean,
the backlash was strong, and it does seem
like Roberts had to apologize. Heritage has
walked a little bit of this back. They have
certainly been receptive to the criticism.
But the fact that it would even happen in the
first place is a sign of how
much the discourse has moved.
AMNA NAWAZ: I also want to point out President
Trump has met with Nick Fuentes before at
Mar-a-Lago. He said he didn't know who he
was or what he stood for. But he also met
with Kanye West, who has been antisemitic
and pro-Hitler in some of his remarks.
That was years ago, though. Is there
something different about this moment?
ARNO ROSENFELD: I think that is a part
of how we got to this moment. So I think
this is the culmination of years of these trends.
I mean, Donald Trump, in 2016,
I think, really called the bluff
of a lot of Republican politicians who'd
been hinting at various things, but hadn't
said them openly about immigrants,
for example. And Fuentes, I think,
has called the bluff of conservative media,
who have hinted at globalists, for example.
And Fuentes just comes out and says, no,
we're talking about Jews. And so I think
that they're very like-minded in that sense
of saying, we don't have to talk around this
stuff. We don't have to use euphemisms.
We can just say it. And Trump came back
to office. Fuentes got a bigger platform. So it's
really a culmination more than a shift, I think.
AMNA NAWAZ: But what does all the
rhetoric mean in the real world? We
know there's a connection between what
is said when it comes to antisemitism
and real-world violence against Jews.
How are American Jews looking at this?
ARNO ROSENFELD: I think what's really scary
for a lot of American Jews and one thing
that American Jews have cared a lot about are
the maintenance of liberal democratic norms,
not a partisan thing, so much as maintaining
gatekeepers of sort of polite society,
maintaining the ability to say, this rhetoric
is beyond the pale. We can't tolerate this.
And so, as those things break down,
it's less that there's a one-to-one,
somebody watches that interview and goes out
and commits an act of antisemitism. That may
happen here or there. It's more the sense
that, if you're a young person online a lot,
watching folks like Fuentes, you start
to think that this rhetoric is OK.
And so I think the idea that this is going to
become something that folks in Congress believe,
that folks in the more mainstream media believe, I
think that's what's most alarming in this moment.
AMNA NAWAZ: Arno Rosenfeld of The Forward,
thank you so much for joining us tonight.
ARNO ROSENFELD: Thank you.